# Exception Handling

## Context

The utility class **HtmlEmailSender** uses MimeMessage to create an HTML mail message and then send it. The MimeMessage class can throw a MessagingException which must be dealt with.

It's worth notin that simple messages do not thrown exceptions, but switching to simple messages is not solving the problem, is simply avoiding or, better, postponing for later when eventually there will be the need to use mime messages. For this reason I think is better to figure now how to deal with these exceptions when they pop up.

## Decision

The exception is caught in a try catch block, and simply logged out as an error.

## Status

Completed, but still unsure.

## Consequences

This decision bring few unwanted results:

- Since it's not possible to control when the exception will be thrown there's no way to test the behaviour of the class in case of such occurence. Mocking the Mime class is a no go because it's a 3rd party class.

- If any change in the future may change the behaviour of the class it will be hard to spot an error. The tests don't cover it , and since the exception is just logged and ignore, the rest of the application will not even notice it. In this case from the user perspective he will be told that an email was sent to his address, but in actuality that email was never sent.

The alternative is to let the Exception propagate, but even in this case the exception must be caught because it must be transformed in an application exception, otherwise we'll have a mail exception traveling in other layers that don't know anything about email. Even worse it would require to have the java mail dependence in all the modules that depend on the application module, and this is clearly not good.

Transforming the exception in another one dont' solve the first problem, we will still be unable to test the part of the code that catch the exception. It will "solve" the second problem but will instead introduce a new one where the user will see the whole application crash because the mail could not be sent, and so it will require additional exception handling to create a cleaner response to the user. On a positive side it will be easier to spot the problem...

Either solutions have problems so, since with the current implementation there should not be any occurrence of the aforementioned exception, it's quicker and cleaner to just ignore and log it as an error.