# Improving Mapping Strategy

## Context

Until now the architecture was planned with a "no-mapping" strategy, by using domain entities. But as the use cases were planned out it was apparent that domain entities contains many information that in most cases are not needed.

A clear example is how each project is in relation with a single user, the user is needed when making a new project or when retriving all projects of a give user, but is not needed when updating a project or when we want to retrieve a specific project by its id.

## Decision

Ports will use exclusive input and output models, tailored to copntain a specific subset on information. Each model will not be made specifically for each use case, rather a new model will be made when a specific subsection of informations are needed in an use case.

These models will be kept in the ports packages.

## Status

work in progress.

## Consequences

There will be need for mapping, outgoing ports will need to use their own mapper by the adapter that implements them, while ingoing ports will make the mapping inside the services by using a mapper when needed.

Not every use case will need an exclusive model, as the models represent a subset of information models can be reuse if the use case require the same subset. Care must be taken when reusing models because it will couple the use cases to the shared model, which could bring unforeseen problems.

Using Input models is possible to delegate input validation to the models themselves.